Adding alternative downsampling examples - Using Quix (#5451)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2/tools/downsample-data-quix.md

---
title: Downsample data with Quix Streams
seotitle: Downsample data with Python and Quix Streams
description: >

>   How to create Python service that downsamples data with Quix Streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use Quix Streams to create Python service that downsamples data stored in InfluxDB.
```

4.  [Create the downsampling logic](#create-the-downsampling-logic)
5.  [Create the producer and consumer clients](#create-the-producer-and-consumer-clients)
    1. [Create the producer](#create-the-producer)
    2. [Create the consumer](#create-the-consumer)
6.  [Run the machine data generator](#run-the-machine-data-generator)
7.  [Get the full downsampling code files](#get-the-full-downsampling-code-files)

## Set up prerequisites

The process described in this guide requires the following:

- InfluxDB v2 with data ready for downsampling. [Use the machine data generator code](#run-the-machine-data-generator) below.
- A [Quix Cloud](https://portal.platform.quix.io/self-sign-up/) account or a
  local Apache Kafka or Red Panda installation.
- Familiarity with basic Python and Docker concepts.

## Install dependencies

Use `pip` to install the following dependencies:

- `influxdb-client` (InfluxDB v2 client library)
- `quixstreams<2.5` (Quix Streams client library)
- `pandas` (data analysis and manipulation tool)

```sh
pip install influxdb-client pandas quixstreams<2.5 
```

## Prepare InfluxDB buckets

The downsampling process involves two InfluxDB buckets.

> Each bucket has a [retention period](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/glossary/#retention-period)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each bucket has a [retention period](/influxdb/v2/reference/glossary/#retention-period)
```

    )

    sdf = sdf.apply(
        lambda value: {
            "time": value["end"],                  # End of the window
            "temperature_avg": value["value"],     # Average temperature
        }
    )

    sdf.to_topic(output_topic) # Output results to the "downsampled" topic
    # ...
    ```

The results are streamed to the Kafka topic, `downsampled`.

{{% note %}}
Note: "sdf" stands for "Streaming Dataframe".
{{% /note %}}

You can find the full code for this process in the
[Quix GitHub repository](https://github.com/quixio/template-invluxdbv2-tsm-downsampling/blob/tutorial/Downsampler/main.py).

## Create the producer and consumer clients

Use the `influxdb_client` and `quixstreams` modules to instantiate two clients that interact with InfluxDB and Kafka:

- A **producer** client configured to read from your InfluxDB bucket with _unmodified_ data and _produce_ that data to Kafka.
- A **consumer** client configured to _consume_ data from Kafka and write the _downsampled_ data to the corresponding InfluxDB bucket.

### Create the producer

Provide the following credentials for the producer:

> - **INFLUXDB_HOST**: [{{< product-name >}} region URL](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/regions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **INFLUXDB_HOST**: [InfluxDB URL](/influxdb/v2/reference/urls/)
```

            # Query InfluxDB 2.0 using flux
            flux_query = f'''
            from(bucket: "{bucket}")
                |> range(start: -{interval})
                |> pivot(rowKey:["_time"], columnKey: ["_field"], valueColumn: "_value")
            '''
            logger.info(f"Sending query: {flux_query}")

## ... remaining code trunctated for brevity ...

# Create a pre-configured Producer object.
with app.get_producer() as producer:
    for res in get_data():
        # Get the data from InfluxDB
        records = json.loads(res)
        for index, obj in enumerate(records):
            logger.info(f"Produced message with key:{message_key}, value:{obj}")
            # Publish the data to the Kafka topic
            producer.produce(
                topic=topic.name,
                key=message_key,
                value=obj,
            ) 
```
{{% /code-placeholders %}}

You can find the full code for this process in the
[Quix GitHub repository](https://github.com/quixio/template-invluxdbv2-tsm-downsampling/blob/tutorial/InfluxDB%20V2%20Data%20Source/main.py).

### Create the consumer

As before, provide the following credentials for the consumer:

> - **INFLUXDB_HOST**: [{{< product-name >}} region URL](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/regions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **INFLUXDB_HOST**: [InfluxDB URL](/influxdb/v2/reference/urls/)
```

  _(without the protocol)_ 
- **INFLUXDB_ORG**: InfluxDB organization name
- **INFLUXDB_TOKEN**: InfluxDB API token with read and write permissions on the buckets you
  want to query and write to.
- **INFLUXDB_BUCKET**: InfluxDB bucket name

{{% note %}}
Note: These will be your InfluxDB v2 credentials.
{{% /note %}}

This process reads messages from the Kafka topic `downsampled-data` and writes each message as a point dictionary back to InfluxDB.

{{% code-placeholders "(API|(RAW|DOWNSAMPLED)_BUCKET|ORG)_(NAME|TOKEN)" %}}
```py
from quixstreams import Application, State
from influxdb_client import InfluxDBClient, Point

# Create a Quix platform-specific application instead
app = Application(consumer_group=consumer_group_name, auto_offset_reset="earliest", use_changelog_topics=False)

input_topic = app.topic(os.getenv("input", "input-data"))

# Initialize InfluxDB v2 client

> influx2_client = InfluxDBClient(url=influx_host,
>                                 token=influx_token,
>                                 org=influx_org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
influx2_client = InfluxDBClient(url={{< influxdb/host >}},
                                token=API_TOKEN,
                                org=ORG_NAME)
```
